---
title: Getting Started
date: 2018-9-25
tags: jekyll genode
---

Wow, that was quick. Today, I've used Jekyll and GitHub Pages to finally build
up my blog. Although, I'm at odds with all those constantly changing web
technologies, this time the experience was really good.
But let's come to the point. What is this blog posting and this blog in general
about:

My name is Stefan Kalkowski, and I'm a system programmer for more that 10 years
now. Most of that time, I was working on developing the [Genode OS
framework](https://genode.org) further. During that time I have learned a lot
about different layers and areas of system programming, hardware, existing
software stacks etc.. And naturally, I made a lot of mistakes, misunderstood
things, build regressions, but again learned from it. Unfortunately, my brain is
far away from being perfect. So it happens from time to time that I hit a hard
problem, which is resource-intensive to debug, and while doing so in the back of
my head it's wispering: *you already investigated that symptom in the past*. But
however, it does not chime in. In those situations I always wished I would have
kept a diary.

Another reason for starting this blog is Genode's missing publicity. Since ten
years we work hard every day at Genode Labs to turn Genode into a viable OS
alternative to the UNIX/POSIX like established once. We are at one that our
technology will bring control back to the end-user and fundamentally improves
security and safety of computer systems. Unfortunately, we are not good in doing
publicity and attracting attention, but feel safe in *just* doing the technical
part. When looking at the few comments about Genode in public discussions, I
often feel that people do not really know what we do, what Genode is about, and
what motivation it drives. This blog shall give more insights into the work on
Genode too. Hopefully, this will help to interest more people in Genode, abolish
some myths about it, and in general better fit its nature of being a community
project.
